Welcome to the lecture about the input function.
So far we have learned that we as programmers can display our information on the screen thanks to the
print statement.
But what if we want the end user of the program we are going to create to be able to enter their own
information?
There is a function to ask the user to type something and then be able to display that information or
store it to do something with it.
For example, if we want to ask for the user's name, we say input your name.
So the input structure is very simple, the keyword input, and then the explanation or request in parentheses
so that the user understands what he or she is expected to enter.
This explanation must be in quotation marks, double or single.
It doesn't matter.
Hence this responds to all characteristics of a string that we have learned in the previous lesson.
And what is the system going to do with the information entered by the user?
For now, it is going to retain it so that we can do something with it.
In the next lectures, we will learn how to store this information to use it as we please.
Later, however, in this lecture we are going to learn how to print that information on the screen.
How enclosing this input statement inside the print statement, do you remember I told you that print
can print not only text and numbers but also functions?
Well, what we are saying now is please python print what the user enters after asking for his or her
name.
How about we go to py time right now to see this in action?
So here we are in pitch and we're going to start testing this input function.
We're going to eliminate what we've had from before.
And I'm going to show you first how it would work with print.
So if I asked someone for their first name and then their last name, for example, I can put print.
So we open the brackets and then we open quotation marks.
Tell me your name.
I'm going to put a colon and then a space so that the cursor is blinking one space away from the colon.
Let's create the other line right here.
Print open the brackets and the quotation marks.
Tell me your last name and also the colon and leave it there.
If I run this, I'm going to show you that.
Also, to make it faster, you don't need to go to the Green Triangle that we have here or to the running
search.
But we also have the keyboard shortcut shift and F10.
So we're going to do that.
We're going to press shift and turn on the keyboard, and this makes it run automatically.
And this just prints.
Tell me your name.
Tell me your last name.
And here it says that the execution of a code is finished.
In other words, I'm no longer in the code.
If I want to write something here, I cannot.
I'm trying to do it.
And if it is not possible because the code is finished, how is this going to change when I write the
input function here?
So let's put it in both.
Input here as well.
Now I have two input functions that, as you can see, what we put inside the brackets is the prompt.
That is a title that tells us the user what to type.
So let's run this with shift that F10 and notice that the difference is now it says Tell me your name.
The system is not executed at the end of the code.
It hasn't even shown me the second line, the one that says Tell me your last name, because now it's
waiting for the user to do something unlike print, which doesn't wait for the user to do anything.
So I click here and I'm going to say, my name is Federico.
We hit enter.
Then they asked for my last name.
My last name is Gary.
And when I hit Enter, then the code and the system waits for me to do something and does not execute
the following lines because input waits for an input.
And this is very important to understand.
Now, I've already entered my name.
And what did the system do with it?
It basically forgot it.
It didn't do anything.
If I now wanted the system to know my first name or my last name, it doesn't know it because it hasn't
finished the function and it doesn't store it anywhere and it didn't show it on the screen.
Hey, what we see on the screen is what I entered, but not what the system has.
Well, one way to do this would be to incorporate it inside a print statement.
So if I enclose all of this inside print, as we saw in the explanation at the beginning of this lecture,
we're going to put print here.
We're going to select the whole input function, and we're going to press the opening brackets.
And this automatically creates the closing brackets as well.
Observe what is going to happen now if I run this.
They say, tell me your name.
I'm going to put here Federico.
I hit enter and after appeared here as I wrote it it showed it on the screen.
Why?
That's because executed in the order from the inside out.
First the input and once I entered it, then just then I continue typing the print and I printed whatever
I typed.
And this is one way of displaying if I want to display a sentence with my name on it, can I do that?
But remember that we can concatenate inside print.
Then I can put here that what Prince says is in quotes.
Your name is.
I leave a space.
Close the quotes.
Put the plus to concatenate.
And what follows is the input.
And this input doesn't need quotes.
So the idea is that I can form a sentence here with what the user enters.
So we run that as well.
It says, Tell me your name.
I write it.
Your name is Federico.
The sequence of concatenation that included both a text and a function was completely executed.
I would also like to tell you my last name.
Then I put your name is.
Let's put another concatenation here.
I want the space to be generated.
So I open the quotation marks and leave a blank space inside so that there is a separation between the
first name and the last name.
Now I'm going to ask for the last name input and in the brackets and in quotes.
Tell me your last name, the colon and the space.
And what before we run this and try to imagine what's going to appear here?
We have a print command, so we tell it.
Please print the following expression.
Your name is.
Then please continue printing concatenating that with a user input which is going to be what the user
responds to when we ask.
Tell me your name.
So that concatenate, please.
With a space.
A single space, then please concatenate with another user inputs if it's going to be what the user
answers when we ask.
Tell me your last name.
It has logic to it.
So let's see if it works.
Let's run this with shift f ten.
They asked me my name and the program does nothing more than that.
It just waits.
So I'm going to tell it again.
My name is Federico.
And we're going to hit enter.
So it did not advance with the print out as it did before.
Now he waits for me to continue giving him the information he needs to make the printout.
And my last name is Gary.
And now when I hit enter, it is fall.
Your name is Federico Garay in perfect English, with perfect spaces between each of the words.
The end user, when he sees the sentence, cannot distinguish if it is a string or if it is composed
of a contamination.
So as worked as expected sometimes, and although it's not necessary, you can also enclose these inputs
within brackets just for the purposes of making it easier to read this concatenation.
And visually, we can understand that there are some things here that are separate from the others.
So again, thank you very much for joining me in this lecture and Phil will now be waiting for you in
the next one.